ADR 029: Fee Grant Module (#7106)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-029-fee-grant-module.md

     repeated cosmos_sdk.v1.Coin period_can_spend = 4;

     ExpiresAt period_reset = 5;
}

// Duration is a repeating unit of either clock time or number of blocks.
// This is designed to be added to an ExpiresAt struct.
message Duration{
    google.protobuf.Timestamp clock = 1;
    int64 block = 2;
}

// ExpiresAt is a point in time where something expires.
// It may be *either* block time or block height
message ExpiresAt{
     google.protobuf.Timestamp time = 1;
     int64 height = 2;
 }
```

Allowances can be granted and revoked using `MsgGrantFeeAllowance` and `MsgRevokeFeeAllowance`:

```proto
message MsgGrantFeeAllowance{
     bytes granter = 1;
     bytes grantee = 2;
     google.protobuf.Any allowance = 3;
 }

 // MsgRevokeFeeAllowance removes any existing FeeAllowance from Granter to Grantee.
 message MsgRevokeFeeAllowance{
     bytes granter = 1;
     bytes grantee = 2;
 }
```

In order to use allowances in transactions, we add a new field `fee_payer` to the transaction `Fee` type:
```proto
package cosmos.tx.v1beta1;

message Fee {
  repeated cosmos.base.v1beta1.Coin amount = 1;
  uint64 gas_limit = 2;
  bytes fee_payer = 3;

> }

Reviewer: We can update this message with with `granter` field

```

`fee_payer` must either be left empty, must equal the first signer (the normal case), or must correspond to an

> account which has granted a fee allowance to the first signer.

Reviewer: The "first signer" part can also be updated with the new "granter" field.

 	//
 	// If it returns an error, the fee payment is rejected, otherwise it is accepted.
 	// The FeeAllowance implementation is expected to update it's internal state
 	// and will be saved again after an acceptance.
 	//
 	// If remove is true (regardless of the error), the FeeAllowance will be deleted from storage
 	// (eg. when it is used up). (See call to RevokeFeeAllowance in Keeper.UseGrantedFees)
 	Accept(fee sdk.Coins, blockTime time.Time, blockHeight int64) (remove bool, err error)
}
```

Two basic fee allowance types, `BasicFeeAllowance` and `PeriodicFeeAllowance` are defined to support known use cases:

```proto
// BasicFeeAllowance implements FeeAllowance with a one-time grant of tokens
// that optionally expires. The delegatee can use up to SpendLimit to cover fees.
message BasicFeeAllowance {
     repeated cosmos_sdk.v1.Coin spend_limit = 1;
     ExpiresAt expiration = 2;
}

// PeriodicFeeAllowance extends FeeAllowance to allow for both a maximum cap,
// as well as a limit per time period.
message PeriodicFeeAllowance {
     BasicFeeAllowance basic = 1;
     Duration period = 2;
     repeated cosmos_sdk.v1.Coin period_spend_limit = 3;

>      repeated cosmos_sdk.v1.Coin period_can_spend = 4;

Reviewer 2: maybe add some doc about these fields like it was the case in https://gist.github.com/aaronc/b60628017352df5983791cad30babe56#core-feeallowance-types?

Author: I added those comments and in the process also updated the `ExpiresAt` and `Duration` structs a bit because they seemed a bit sloppy. Now these use `oneof` which seems more logical. Can you take a look again @blushi ?

Reviewer 2: > Now these use oneof which seems more logical. Can you take a look again @blushi @amaurymartiny ?

yeah makes sense

     ExpiresAt period_reset = 5;
}

// Duration is a repeating unit of either clock time or number of blocks.

> // This is designed to be added to an ExpiresAt struct.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit confusing to me, what about 
```suggestion
// This is designed to be used with an ExpiresAt struct.
```

Author: I actually deleted that part. It makes no sense. I'm not sure what I meant
